update!: Add Cromite to Mobile Browsers (#2381)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/mobile-browsers.md

    [:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

    ??? downloads annotate

        - [:simple-android: F-Droid](https://www.cromite.org/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=49F37E74DEE483DCA2B991334FB5A0200787430D0B5F9A783DD5F13695E9517B)
        - [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest)

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings**.

#### Recommended Configuration

##### HTTPS-Only Mode

- [x] Select **Always use secure connections** in **Privacy and security**

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

##### Always-on Incognito Mode

The following are in **Privacy and security**.

- [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit** 
- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

##### Disable legacy adblock

> - [ ] Uncheck **autoupdate** in **Legacy Adblock settings**

Reviewer: what does this do and why should we do it?

Reviewer 2: Legacy Adblock is basically Bromite's ad blocking feature. Cromite implements Adblock Plus, but they keep both enabled by default.

If it should be a recommendation, I really don't know.

Author: since bromite is dead, the old bromite filter is no longer updated, so i thought to reduce call-home (sure it's github but eh)

[Brave Sync](https://support.brave.com/hc/articles/360059793111-Understanding-Brave-Sync) allows your browsing data (history, bookmarks, etc.) to be accessible on all your devices without requiring an account and protects it with E2EE.

### Cromite

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![Cromite logo](assets/img/browsers/cromite.svg){ align=right }

> **Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with privacy and security enhancements, built-in ad blocking, and some fingerprinting randomization. It is the continuation of Bromite.

Reviewer 3: > and some fingerprinting randomization.

some because I never detailed them, correct?
do you think it is right for me to do so, i.e. to detail what has been implemented and what I think is missing?
do you happen to have a list of those implemented in brave as a comparison?

Reviewer 4: >  do you think it is right for me to do so, i.e. to detail what has been implemented and what I think is missing?

I would like that then I would directly link to it.

>  do you happen to have a list of those implemented in brave as a comparison?

There are various [blog articles](https://brave.com/privacy-updates/) that I think one would have to go through. [This](https://github.com/brave/brave-browser/wiki/Fingerprinting-Protections) however might be more relevant as it discusses what is randomized and what is blocked.

Reviewer: Also I think has to do with testing at https://privacytests.org/android

Reviewer 3: >  https://privacytests.org/android 

ah I didn't even know @arthuredelstein added cromite!

>  where it seems to cover similar things to Brave but less than Mull

let's talk about it if you want. the results of each test should be interpreted.
But I don't think cromite is necessarily better than others: what cromite lacks is testing (and spread :) and I am okay with the fact that there are excellent sites like that and the duck duck test site because I use them to check regressions.
too bad there is no site that compare the same browser on different devices, not so much on functionality, but on how it looks to the Web sites.
creepjs, my reference website, has something similar, but it is hidden very well in the code.

> Not that I think Cromite should go as far as Mull does necessarily, to be clear. 

Unfortunately, I don't know Mull so I can't answer that.

> I don't think Cromite intends to go as far as Firefox RFP?

I don't know that one either.
I can tell you that my goal is to make all devices as similar as possible, as Tor does.

Reviewer 5: > I would like that then I would directly link to it [documentation on how Cromite's fingerprinting randomization techniques].

It looks like @uazo very recently updated the documentation for Cromite to neatly show a list of the anti-fingerprinting techniques Cromite employs.

https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/FEATURES.md#anti-fingerprinting

Author: Link is added.

> **Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with privacy and security enhancements, built-in ad blocking, and some fingerprinting randomization. It is the continuation of Bromite.

Reviewer 6: Does Cromite also have a tracker blocker? If yes, this should be mentioned.

Author: AdBlock Plus is mentioned, and you can certainly use it to block trackers, but there isn't really a specific thing that blocks trackers out of the box.

![Cromite logo](assets/img/browsers/cromite.svg){ align=right }

**Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with built-in ad blocking, fingerprinting protections, and other [privacy and security enhancements](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/FEATURES.md). It is a fork of the discontinued **Bromite** browser.

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://www.cromite.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/PRIVACY_POLICY.md){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite?tab=readme-ov-file#docs){ .card-link title="Documentation" }
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-android: F-Droid](https://www.cromite.org/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=49F37E74DEE483DCA2B991334FB5A0200787430D0B5F9A783DD5F13695E9517B)
- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest)

</details>

</div>

### Recommended Configuration

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Privacy and security**.

> #### Security

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Browsing data

- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**

#### Incognito mode

- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

#### Security
```

- [x] Select **Always use secure connections**

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

#### Always-on Incognito Mode

The following are in **Privacy and security**.

- [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

> #### Legacy Adblock settings
> 
> These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Legacy Adblock settings**.
> 
> - [ ] Uncheck the autoupdate setting
> 
> This disables update checks for the unmaintained Bromite adblock filter.
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

#### Adblock Plus settings

Cromite contains a customized version of Adblock Plus with EasyList enabled by default, as well as options to select more filter lists within the **FIlter lists** menu.

Using extra lists will make you stand out from other Cromite users and may also increase attack surface if a malicious rule is added to one of the lists you use.

- [x] (Optional) Select **Enable anti-circumvention and snippets**

This setting adds an additional Adblock Plus list that may increase the effectiveness of Cromite's content blocking. The warnings about standing out and potentially increasing attack surface apply.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

#### Legacy Adblock settings

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Legacy Adblock settings**.

- [ ] Uncheck the autoupdate setting

This disables update checks for the unmaintained Bromite adblock filter.

```

Reviewer 5: Rearranging sections in the order they appear in Cromite's settings

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-android: F-Droid](https://www.cromite.org/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=49F37E74DEE483DCA2B991334FB5A0200787430D0B5F9A783DD5F13695E9517B)
- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest)

</details>

</div>

### Recommended Configuration

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Privacy and security**.

#### Browsing data

- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**

#### Incognito mode

- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

#### Security

- [x] Select **Always use secure connections**

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

#### Always-on Incognito Mode

The following are in **Privacy and security**.

- [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

#### Adblock Plus settings

> Cromite contains a customized version of Adblock Plus with EasyList enabled by default, as well as options to select more filter lists within the **FIlter lists** menu.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Adblock Plus settings**.

Cromite contains a customized version of Adblock Plus with EasyList enabled by default, as well as options to select more filter lists within the **FIlter lists** menu.
```

[:octicons-eye-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/PRIVACY_POLICY.md){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite?tab=readme-ov-file#docs){ .card-link title="Documentation" }
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-android: F-Droid](https://www.cromite.org/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=49F37E74DEE483DCA2B991334FB5A0200787430D0B5F9A783DD5F13695E9517B)
- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest)

</details>

</div>

### Recommended Configuration

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Privacy and security**.

#### Browsing data

- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**

#### Incognito mode

- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

#### Security

- [x] Select **Always use secure connections**

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

> #### Always-on Incognito Mode
> 
> The following are in **Privacy and security**.
> 
> - [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
> - [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
> - [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

[Brave Sync](https://support.brave.com/hc/articles/360059793111-Understanding-Brave-Sync) allows your browsing data (history, bookmarks, etc.) to be accessible on all your devices without requiring an account and protects it with E2EE.

> ### Cromite (Android)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cromite (Android)
```

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![Cromite logo](assets/img/browsers/cromite.svg){ align=right }

> **Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with [privacy and security enhancements, built-in ad blocking, and some fingerprinting protection](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/FEATURES.md). It is the continuation of [Bromite](https://www.bromite.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with [privacy and security enhancements, built-in ad blocking, and some fingerprinting protections](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/FEATURES.md). It is a fork of the discontinued **Bromite** browser.
```

No need to link to dead projects.

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://www.cromite.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/PRIVACY_POLICY.md){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite?tab=readme-ov-file#docs){ .card-link title=Documentation}
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-android: F-Droid](https://www.cromite.org/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=49F37E74DEE483DCA2B991334FB5A0200787430D0B5F9A783DD5F13695E9517B)
- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest)

</details>

</div>

### Recommended Configuration

> These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Privacy and security**.
```

> #### HTTPS-Only Mode

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Security
```

> - [x] Select **Always use secure connections** in **Privacy and security**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [x] Select **Always use secure connections**
```

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

#### Always-on Incognito Mode

The following are in **Privacy and security**.

- [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

> #### Disable legacy adblock

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Legacy Adblock settings

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Legacy Adblock settings**.
```

> - [ ] Uncheck **autoupdate** in **Legacy Adblock settings**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [ ] Check **Autoupdate disabled**

This setting disables update checks for the unmaintained Bromite adblock filter.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [x] Check **Autoupdate disabled**
This setting disables update checks for the unmaintained Bromite adblock filter.
```
if it's checked it should be [x] right?

Author: It becomes "autoupdate disabled" with off switch, the opposite is "autoupdate enabled" with on switch, so I suggest keeping it as-is

Reviewer 5: Ah I just checked and the setting description does change when toggled.
```suggestion
- [ ] Unselect the autoupdate setting
```
This wording should avoid the setting-specific text.

> #### Recommended Configuration
> 
> These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings**.
> 
> ##### HTTPS-Only Mode
> 
> - [x] Select **Always use secure connections** in **Privacy and security**
> 
> This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.
> 
> ##### Always-on Incognito Mode
> 
> The following are in **Privacy and security**.
> 
> - [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
> - [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
> - [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**
> 
> ##### Disable legacy adblock
> 
> - [ ] Uncheck **autoupdate** in **Legacy Adblock settings**
> 
> ##### Adblock Plus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Recommended Configuration

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings**.

#### HTTPS-Only Mode

- [x] Select **Always use secure connections** in **Privacy and security**

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

#### Always-on Incognito Mode

The following are in **Privacy and security**.

- [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

#### Disable legacy adblock

- [ ] Uncheck **autoupdate** in **Legacy Adblock settings**

#### Adblock Plus
```

correct header levels

Cromite contains a customized version of Adblock Plus. In **Adblock Plus settings**, You may select the appropriate filter lists, or add custom ones in **Custom ad filtering settings**.

> - [x] Select **Enable anti-circumvention and snippets**

Reviewer 5: To be consistent with recommendations for other browsers that allow for adding more filter lists (e.g., [Brave](https://www.privacyguides.org/en/mobile-browsers/#brave-shields-global-defaults)), I'm not sure if this should be included.

Author: You can just

```suggestion
#### Adblock Plus

Cromite contains a customized version of Adblock Plus. In **Adblock Plus settings**,

- [x] Select appropriate options in **Filter lists**
- [x] Select **Enable anti-circumvention and snippets**
```

Because the problem is that Cromite does not select any filters by default

Author: o rly maybe i forgor

then i guess you can remove the entire section

Reviewer 5: I think we can keep the section and add the typical warnings about performance hits and potential increased attack surface.

Reviewer 5: How about this?
```suggestion
#### Adblock Plus settings

Cromite contains a customized version of Adblock Plus with EasyList enabled by default, as well as options to select more filter lists within the **FIlter lists** menu.

Using extra lists will make you stand out from other Cromite users and may also increase attack surface if a malicious rule is added to one of the lists you use.

- [x] (Optional) Select **Enable anti-circumvention and snippets**

This setting adds an additional Adblock Plus list that may increase the effectiveness of Cromite's content blocking, but the same warning above applies here as well.
```

[Brave Sync](https://support.brave.com/hc/articles/360059793111-Understanding-Brave-Sync) allows your browsing data (history, bookmarks, etc.) to be accessible on all your devices without requiring an account and protects it with E2EE.

## Cromite (Android)

<div class="admonition recommendation" markdown>

![Cromite logo](assets/img/browsers/cromite.svg){ align=right }

> **Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with [privacy and security enhancements, built-in ad blocking, and some fingerprinting protections](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/FEATURES.md). It is a fork of the discontinued **Bromite** browser.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Cromite** is a Chromium-based browser with built-in ad blocking, fingerprinting protections, and other [privacy and security enhancements](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/FEATURES.md). It is a fork of the discontinued **Bromite** browser.
```
Changed this part so that there isn't an excessively long hyperlink

[:octicons-home-16: Homepage](https://www.cromite.org){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:octicons-eye-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/blob/master/docs/PRIVACY_POLICY.md){ .card-link title="Privacy Policy" }
[:octicons-info-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite?tab=readme-ov-file#docs){ .card-link title=Documentation}
[:octicons-code-16:](https://github.com/uazo/cromite){ .card-link title="Source Code" }

<details class="downloads" markdown>
<summary>Downloads</summary>

- [:simple-android: F-Droid](https://www.cromite.org/fdroid/repo/?fingerprint=49F37E74DEE483DCA2B991334FB5A0200787430D0B5F9A783DD5F13695E9517B)
- [:simple-github: GitHub](https://github.com/uazo/cromite/releases/latest)

</details>

</div>

### Recommended Configuration

These options can be found in :material-menu: → :gear: **Settings** → **Privacy and security**.

#### Security

- [x] Select **Always use secure connections**

This prevents you from unintentionally connecting to a website in plain-text HTTP. The HTTP protocol is extremely uncommon nowadays, so this should have little to no impact on your day to day browsing.

> #### Always-on Incognito Mode
> 
> The following are in **Privacy and security**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Incognito Mode
```

> #### Always-on Incognito Mode
> 
> The following are in **Privacy and security**.
> 
> - [x] Select **Always open links in incognito** in the **Always incognito mode** menu
> - [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
> - [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

Author: opening external links in incognito could be useful to restore WebView-like behaviour before Chrome custom tabs, but it is not strictly necessary either. also see dev response https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/pull/2381#issuecomment-2054138460

```suggestion
#### Always-on Incognito Mode

The following are in **Privacy and security**.

- [x] Select **Close all open tabs on exit**
- [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**
```

> - [x] Select **Open external links in incognito**

Reviewer 5: Added recommendations for both settings: https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/pull/2381#discussion_r1838747671
